README.md, before:

# Blake Caven

[linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/blake-caven/) \
[github](https://github.com/bcaven/) 

I am a Computer Science student at the University of Notre Dame with an interest in real-world applications for software development. \
Right now I am working on projects dealing with computer vision, distributed systems, and visual effects. \
I am pursuing a Masters of Computer Science degree at the University of Notre Dame.

> Skills: Embedded programming, micropython, electrical engineering, multicast, Python, raspberry pi, CAD, Embedded C++, arduino, HTML, JavaScript, Websockets, Flask, Celery, ThreeJS, Vue, Docker, AWS, Potree, Blender, Maya, Linux, Team management, Prototyping and deploying solutions.

# Education:

University of Notre Dame: B.S. in Computer Science in Engineering, Class of 2025 \
University of Notre Dame: M.S. in Computer Science, Class of 2026

# Experience:

## Researcher in [GESS Lab](https://github.com/gessLab): Spring 2025 - present

Developed real-time simulations in C++ under Professor Dan Rehberg.

## Teaching Assistant: Spring 2025

Served as Teaching Assistant under Professor John Slaughter for Visual Effects II (CSE 40777). \
Taught advanced concepts in compositing and simulation design using Houdini, Blender, and Adobe After Effects.

## On-Campus Intern at CDW: Fall 2024 - present

Worked for CDW Corp's government business, providing subject matter expertise and on-campus technical sale support as part of CDW's account team serving the University of Notre Dame to provide custom solutions for the University's IT strategy.

## Researcher in the DHARMA Lab: Spring 2022 - Summer 2024

Researched under Dr. Krushe and Dr. Wang in [DHARMA](https://dharma3d.org/dharma.crc.nd.edu/index.html). \
Part of multi-disciplinary team of Computer Science and Architecture researchers that completed a digital restoration of the Roman Forum and created a sea level rise visualization using ArcGIS to predict where future problems will occur.

## Assistant Tennis Coach at JTCC Bolles: Summer 2023

As a volunteer tennis coach at Junior Tennis C.C. Bolles School campus, 
I assisted aspiring young athletes ranging from 4-18 years old on their tennis journeys.

---

# Projects and Competitions:

> A complete list of my projects can be found at https://github.com/BCaven/ but these are my favorites.

## [Multiplayer Game Server](https://github.com/BCaven/multiplayer-game-server): Fall 2024

Distributed Systems Architecture: server cluster with sequential consistency that dynamically created and removed servers to match server load. \
Tested with up to 256 simultaneous clients. Average latency of 0.075 seconds with 256 connected clients.

## [Elgato Light Strip Controller](https://github.com/BCaven/elgato-light-controller): Fall 2023 - present

Network orchestration for IOT devices: Controller that autonomously controlled Elgato Light Strips using the reverse engineered API.\
This controller has been running continuously since December 2023.

## [Creativity Optional](https://github.com/BCaven/creativity-optional): Spring 2024 - present

Real-time Streaming Processor: Lead developer for OSS that allows the user to send arbitrary real-time data to a custom 3D scene. \
Built using Flask and ThreeJS.

## Innovate-o-thon: Fall 2021, Spring 2022

Engineering Innovate-o-thon at University of Notre Dame hosted by Marmon Industries. \
I led my team to the top prize of $2,000 in the Fall 2021 competition and the Spring 2022 competition.

# Extra:

Study Abroad in London: Summer 2022 \
Fleadh Cheoil Set Dancing and Sean-Nós: Summer 2024 \
Notre Dame Club Tennis: Fall 2022 - present

Commit message:

added publication and additional project information

README.md, after:

# Blake Caven

[linkedin](https://www.linkedin.com/in/blake-caven/) \
[github](https://github.com/bcaven/) 

I am a Computer Science student at the University of Notre Dame with an interest in real-world applications for software development. \
Right now I am working on projects dealing with computer vision, distributed systems, and visual effects. \
I am pursuing a Masters of Computer Science degree at the University of Notre Dame.

> Skills: Embedded programming, micropython, electrical engineering, multicast, Python, raspberry pi, CAD, Embedded C++, arduino, HTML, JavaScript, Websockets, Flask, Celery, ThreeJS, Vue, Docker, AWS, Potree, Blender, Maya, Linux, Team management, Prototyping and deploying solutions, Prompt Engineering.

# Education:

University of Notre Dame: B.S. in Computer Science in Engineering, Class of 2025 \
University of Notre Dame: M.S. in Computer Science, Class of 2026

# Experience:

## Researcher in [GESS Lab](https://github.com/gessLab): Spring 2025 - present

Developed real-time simulations in C++ under Professor Dan Rehberg.

## Teaching Assistant: Spring 2025

Served as Teaching Assistant under Professor John Slaughter for Visual Effects II (CSE 40777). \
Taught advanced concepts in compositing and simulation design using Houdini, Blender, and Adobe After Effects.

## On-Campus Intern at CDW: Fall 2024 - present

Worked for CDW Corp's government business, providing subject matter expertise and on-campus technical sale support as part of CDW's account team serving the University of Notre Dame to provide custom solutions for the University's IT strategy.

## Researcher in the [DHARMA Lab](https://dharma3d.org/dharma.crc.nd.edu/index.html): Spring 2022 - Summer 2024

Researched under Dr. Krushe and Dr. Wang in DHARMA. \
Part of multi-disciplinary team of Computer Science and Architecture researchers that completed a digital restoration of the Roman Forum and created a sea level rise visualization using ArcGIS to predict where future problems will occur. \
I am co-author on [Visualizing Digital Architectural Data for Heritage Education](https://par.nsf.gov/servlets/purl/10399514).

## Assistant Tennis Coach at JTCC Bolles: Summer 2023

As a volunteer tennis coach at Junior Tennis C.C. Bolles School campus, 
I assisted aspiring young athletes ranging from 4-18 years old on their tennis journeys.

---

# Projects and Competitions:

> A complete list of my projects can be found at https://github.com/BCaven/ but these are my favorites.

## [Multiplayer Game Server](https://github.com/BCaven/multiplayer-game-server): Fall 2024

Distributed Systems Architecture: server cluster with sequential consistency that dynamically created and removed servers to match server load. \
Tested with up to 256 simultaneous clients. Average latency of 0.075 seconds with 256 connected clients.

## [Elgato Light Strip Controller](https://github.com/BCaven/elgato-light-controller): Fall 2023 - present

Network orchestration for IOT devices: Controller that autonomously controlled Elgato Light Strips using the reverse engineered API.\
This controller has been running continuously since December 2023. In 2024 the project got redone to be more pythonic and I used an LLM to automatically apply changes across the program (such as replacing a custom logging module with the built-in python `logging` module.

## [Creativity Optional](https://github.com/BCaven/creativity-optional): Spring 2024 - present

Real-time Streaming Processor: Lead developer for OSS that allows the user to send arbitrary real-time data to a custom 3D scene. \
Built using Flask and ThreeJS.

## Innovate-o-thon: Fall 2021, Spring 2022

Engineering Innovate-o-thon at University of Notre Dame hosted by Marmon Industries. \
I led my team to the top prize of $2,000 in the Fall 2021 competition and the Spring 2022 competition.

# Publications:

[Brown, Chase J., et al. "Visualizing digital architectural data for heritage education." IS&T Conference on Visualization and Data Analysis. 2023.](https://par.nsf.gov/servlets/purl/10399514)

# Extra:

Study Abroad in London: Summer 2022 \
Fleadh Cheoil Set Dancing and Sean-Nós: Summer 2024 \
Notre Dame Club Tennis: Fall 2022 - present
